README.md, before:

# Awesome lost & found

A personal list of useful software engineering resources that may have been lost in my browser's history.

---

## Architecture

- [The Twelve-Factor App](https://12factor.net/)
- [A Hitchhiker’s Guide to Caching Patterns](https://hazelcast.com/blog/a-hitchhikers-guide-to-caching-patterns/)
- [Microservices Production Readiness Checklist](https://github.com/kgoralski/microservice-production-readiness-checklist)
- [Simple systems have less downtime](https://www.gkogan.co/blog/simple-systems/)

## Java

- [Maintaining a medium-sized Java library in 2022 and beyond](https://michael-simons.github.io/neo4j-migrations/maintaining-a-medium-sized-java-library-in-2022-and-beyond/)
- [Modern Best Practices for Testing in Java](https://phauer.com/2019/modern-best-practices-testing-java/)
- [Map.merge() - One method to rule them all](https://nurkiewicz.com/2019/03/mapmerge-one-method-to-rule-them-all.html)
- [What is the point of extending a sealed class with a non-sealed class?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63860110/what-is-the-point-of-extending-a-sealed-class-with-a-non-sealed-class/63887136#63887136)
- [How the JIT compiler boosts Java performance in OpenJDK](https://developers.redhat.com/articles/2021/06/23/how-jit-compiler-boosts-java-performance-openjdk)

## Kotlin

- [Best Practices for Unit Testing in Kotlin](https://phauer.com/2018/best-practices-unit-testing-kotlin/)

## Kafka

- [The Log: What every software engineer should know about real-time data's unifying abstraction](https://engineering.linkedin.com/distributed-systems/log-what-every-software-engineer-should-know-about-real-time-datas-unifying)
- [Turning the database inside-out with Apache Samza](https://martin.kleppmann.com/2015/03/04/turning-the-database-inside-out.html)
- [Squeezing the firehose: getting the most from Kafka compression](https://blog.cloudflare.com/squeezing-the-firehose/)
- [Optimizing Kafka producers](https://strimzi.io/blog/2020/10/15/producer-tuning/)

## Databases
- [How a Distributed SQL Database Boosts Secondary Index Queries with Index Only Scan](https://blog.yugabyte.com/how-a-distributed-sql-database-boosts-secondary-index-queries-with-index-only-scan/)
- [The Skip Locked feature in Postgres 9.5](https://www.pgcasts.com/episodes/the-skip-locked-feature-in-postgres-9-5) - turning 
PostgreSQL into a simple job queue
- [The What, Why, and When of Single-Table Design with DynamoDB](https://www.alexdebrie.com/posts/dynamodb-single-table/)

## Observability

- _Prometheus Range Vectors_ series
  - [Understanding Prometheus Range Vectors](https://satyanash.net/software/2021/01/04/understanding-prometheus-range-vectors.html)
  - [Charting Range Vectors in Prometheus](https://satyanash.net/software/2021/06/09/charting-range-vectors-prometheus.html)
- _How does a Prometheus XYZ work?_ series
  - [How does a Prometheus Counter work?](https://www.robustperception.io/how-does-a-prometheus-counter-work/)
  - [How does a Prometheus Gauge work?](https://www.robustperception.io/how-does-a-prometheus-gauge-work/)
  - [How does a Prometheus Summary work?](https://www.robustperception.io/how-does-a-prometheus-summary-work)
  - [How does a Prometheus Histogram work?](https://www.robustperception.io/how-does-a-prometheus-histogram-work)

## Git

- [How to Write a Git Commit Message](https://cbea.ms/git-commit/)
- [A better git blame with --ignore-rev](https://michaelheap.com/git-ignore-rev/) - ignoring certain revisions (e.g. 
code formatting) from `git blame` output

## Software craftsmanship

- [CUPID for joyful coding](https://github.com/kgoralski/microservice-production-readiness-checklist) - an interesting 
and pragmatic alternative to SOLID (Composable, Unix philosophy, Predictable, Idiomatic, Domain-based)
- [Kent Beck's four rules of simple design](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/BeckDesignRules.html) - passes the tests,
reveals intention, no duplication, fewest elements
- [Safe to fail vs fail safe](https://devskiller.com/techblog/Safe-to-fail-vs-fail-safe/)
- [Exploratory refactoring](https://victorrentea.ro/blog/exploratory-refactoring/)


## Soft skills & culture

- [The ownership trio](https://alexewerlof.medium.com/the-ownership-trio-482a4e5f666d) - true ownership requires all 3: 
mandate, knowledge, and responsibility


## Miscellaneous

- [The documentation system](https://documentation.divio.com/) - tutorials, how-to guides, explanations, and references
- [IDEA - A series of nonverbal algorithm assembly instructions](https://idea-instructions.com/) (IKEA style)
- [Akin's Laws of Spacecraft Design](https://spacecraft.ssl.umd.edu/akins_laws.html)
- [The Difference Between a URL, URI, and URN](https://danielmiessler.com/study/difference-between-uri-url/)
- [Ribbon filter: Practically smaller than Bloom and Xor](https://engineering.fb.com/2021/07/09/data-infrastructure/ribbon-filter/)

Commit message:

Add 'APIs' and 'Technical writing' sections

README.md, after:

# Awesome lost & found

A personal list of useful software engineering resources that may have been lost in my browser's history otherwise.

## Architecture

- [The Twelve-Factor App](https://12factor.net/)
- [A Hitchhiker’s Guide to Caching Patterns](https://hazelcast.com/blog/a-hitchhikers-guide-to-caching-patterns/)
- [Microservices Production Readiness Checklist](https://github.com/kgoralski/microservice-production-readiness-checklist)
- [Simple systems have less downtime](https://www.gkogan.co/blog/simple-systems/)

## Java

- [Maintaining a medium-sized Java library in 2022 and beyond](https://michael-simons.github.io/neo4j-migrations/maintaining-a-medium-sized-java-library-in-2022-and-beyond/)
- [Modern Best Practices for Testing in Java](https://phauer.com/2019/modern-best-practices-testing-java/)
- [Map.merge() - One method to rule them all](https://nurkiewicz.com/2019/03/mapmerge-one-method-to-rule-them-all.html)
- [What is the point of extending a sealed class with a non-sealed class?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63860110/what-is-the-point-of-extending-a-sealed-class-with-a-non-sealed-class/63887136#63887136)
- [How the JIT compiler boosts Java performance in OpenJDK](https://developers.redhat.com/articles/2021/06/23/how-jit-compiler-boosts-java-performance-openjdk)

## Kotlin

- [Best Practices for Unit Testing in Kotlin](https://phauer.com/2018/best-practices-unit-testing-kotlin/)

## APIs

- [Zalando RESTful API and Event Guidelines](https://opensource.zalando.com/restful-api-guidelines/)

## Kafka

- [The Log: What every software engineer should know about real-time data's unifying abstraction](https://engineering.linkedin.com/distributed-systems/log-what-every-software-engineer-should-know-about-real-time-datas-unifying)
- [Turning the database inside-out with Apache Samza](https://martin.kleppmann.com/2015/03/04/turning-the-database-inside-out.html)
- [Squeezing the firehose: getting the most from Kafka compression](https://blog.cloudflare.com/squeezing-the-firehose/) - overview
and comparison of the available message compression methods
- [Optimizing Kafka producers](https://strimzi.io/blog/2020/10/15/producer-tuning/)

## Databases
- [How a Distributed SQL Database Boosts Secondary Index Queries with Index Only Scan](https://blog.yugabyte.com/how-a-distributed-sql-database-boosts-secondary-index-queries-with-index-only-scan/) - reading 
data directly from the index (PostgreSQL)
- [The Skip Locked feature in Postgres 9.5](https://www.pgcasts.com/episodes/the-skip-locked-feature-in-postgres-9-5) - turning 
PostgreSQL into a simple job queue
- [The What, Why, and When of Single-Table Design with DynamoDB](https://www.alexdebrie.com/posts/dynamodb-single-table/)

## Observability

- _Prometheus Range Vectors_ series
  - [Understanding Prometheus Range Vectors](https://satyanash.net/software/2021/01/04/understanding-prometheus-range-vectors.html)
  - [Charting Range Vectors in Prometheus](https://satyanash.net/software/2021/06/09/charting-range-vectors-prometheus.html)
- _How does a Prometheus XYZ work?_ series
  - [How does a Prometheus Counter work?](https://www.robustperception.io/how-does-a-prometheus-counter-work/)
  - [How does a Prometheus Gauge work?](https://www.robustperception.io/how-does-a-prometheus-gauge-work/)
  - [How does a Prometheus Summary work?](https://www.robustperception.io/how-does-a-prometheus-summary-work)
  - [How does a Prometheus Histogram work?](https://www.robustperception.io/how-does-a-prometheus-histogram-work)

## Git

- [How to Write a Git Commit Message](https://cbea.ms/git-commit/)
- [A better git blame with --ignore-rev](https://michaelheap.com/git-ignore-rev/) - ignoring certain revisions (e.g. 
code formatting) from `git blame` output

## Software craftsmanship

- [CUPID for joyful coding](https://github.com/kgoralski/microservice-production-readiness-checklist) - an interesting 
and pragmatic alternative to SOLID (Composable, Unix philosophy, Predictable, Idiomatic, Domain-based)
- [Kent Beck's four rules of simple design](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/BeckDesignRules.html) - passes the tests,
reveals intention, no duplication, fewest elements
- [Safe to fail vs fail safe](https://devskiller.com/techblog/Safe-to-fail-vs-fail-safe/) - unless building a spacecraft,
recovering from failures quickly may be more important than avoiding all possible issues in the first place
- [Exploratory refactoring](https://victorrentea.ro/blog/exploratory-refactoring/) - learning the codebase through
the refactoring
- [The Best Code Review](https://victorrentea.ro/blog/the-best-code-review/) - tips on how to turn code review into
a pleasant, and productive experience

## Soft skills & culture

- [The ownership trio](https://alexewerlof.medium.com/the-ownership-trio-482a4e5f666d) - true ownership requires all 3: 
mandate, knowledge, and responsibility

## Technical writing

- [The documentation system](https://documentation.divio.com/) - tutorials, how-to guides, explanations, and references
(all serve a different purpose)

## Miscellaneous

- [IDEA - A series of nonverbal algorithm assembly instructions](https://idea-instructions.com/) (IKEA style)
- [Akin's Laws of Spacecraft Design](https://spacecraft.ssl.umd.edu/akins_laws.html)
- [The Difference Between a URL, URI, and URN](https://danielmiessler.com/study/difference-between-uri-url/)
- [Ribbon filter: Practically smaller than Bloom and Xor](https://engineering.fb.com/2021/07/09/data-infrastructure/ribbon-filter/)
